All right welcome back my student on The Last Lecture.
We kind of completed their use user function.
It's not 100 percent completed unless until we tested in the life server own tool we test some of these
functionality.
So we're going to be testing to see what kind of values we're going to get from here research.
We're going to get.
And then after that we'll test it with a live server.
But for now I'm going to grab this code right here and I copy it and I take it to my
tets editor that I got right here and then paste that in there.
Right.
What I want to do is I want to go to the beach be my admin.
I want to find how why use are we have there.
All right.
So go to your Ph.D. My Aardman
go to your users table.
We've got some users here.
I got some users with somebody in cold and they're not active yet.
All right.
But so I'm just going to use this email right here.
One when I use one and we're going to send the validation code you are able just to make sure that we
are actually receiving that.
So I'm going to use that e-mail to writing here and I'm going to use this validation called right here
right right here.
And then we're going to see well what can we get into your elbow before we do that we need to create
to have this link right here I want you to have as well because we're going to use it in a minute but
what I want to do is create this active user function right after this one.
All right.
So I want to make a comment here because this is getting long.
I love coming here and this one maybe will be re-used or user.
All right.
And this would be activate
user functions.
All right.
So we're going to come here and when I create is active a user function
perfect we are going to check our server variables.
And for requests method
if he's able to get requests all right and his requests we're going to be pulling out all
the e-mail.
So if he said get email
my days no going to be pulling it out.
All right.
Here and we can clean that up a little bit.
Apply a variable to assign a variable.
So there we go.
All right cool.
We can also grab the validation code so
that will come in a kids request access code and we can name a validation code.
All right.
And we're going to do is I'm going to equil them out just to make sure that we're getting them.
I'm going to grab the active a user function and then I go to activate that BHP code right here.
All right.
And I'm going to paste it over my BHB tax M-Pesa right here.
Save it.
So we should see that there.
So let's go to our activity that BHP actively BHP and of course is going to tell me I have a narrow
here on functions of BHP.
Let's go there next.
Checking out well I wasn't 3:57 I believe 3:34 in saying that I have some statement that I'm not supposed
to be there.
So let's check it out real quick.
All right I think I know what the problem is we're missing one of these guys here.
Curly bracket
and missing a curly bracket.
This is really you sir.
Oh why did I do.
What was that about.
Put that in the wrong place.
What was I doing on The Last Lecture.
Guys I'm sorry LCF.
Alice
we need to return the fours there.
Guys I'm sorry about that.
All right.
Anyway let's go back here and we're not doing anything right but if we pass a parameter we'll pass a
e-mail address.
Let's actually go ahead and get the link that I that we have on that text editor right here and a space
to right here enter.
And you can see that we're pulling in this values we're pulling in the validation code and we're pulling
and e-mail address.
All right.
So I don't even know why I had that in the last lecture.
I don't know where I was getting the else return false.
Maybe I was confusing it with this one here.
If they used to use it that's what I was doing I was doing it in my head right here.
And then we can set something here that we say.
And that's what I'm going to do right here.
If register user if we are able to get used to the user we said this message if we're not we can't register
them.
We just put another message here and say sorry
sorry we could not register the user.
I don't even know why I had that.
Sorry about that guys.
All right.
So another way that we know that we're getting some values here.
Let's go
and then work on this now.
All right.
So once we got the validation in the e-mail all we got to do is do our ask you statement right.
So let's check to see if we have a role in the database.
And if we do then we are going to be activating that user right.
So let's say we select ID from users where what what condition can we use here.
Where e-mail equals what e-mail right.
So let's actually concatenate here.
Let's keep it first.
So we going to concatenate this function.
And we are going to be saying concatenating this guy right here cleaning it up scaping it.
All right.
So we're email equals email and we can also do another statement here and another condition and we can
say we're validation code equals what can you guess what and actually we need a single quote here where
validation call equals
validation code variable.
We'll get it here like this.
Good.
And as I actually copy this so that we make no mistakes there we go.
All right.
And semi-colon there make sure that you have your single codes around the right nice.
Not going to work then the next thing to do here would be to send a query right.
So we can send the query assign it to a variable here so we can use it a little bit more.
And this well will confirm it.
Right.
And then we can display some type of message.
All right.
And we could way I go.
We went out and this one we can because we don't need to take the user anywhere else right.
So we can do some type of message here and I think we have a function with this place on validation.
Let me see this function display validation errors.
Asked for errors only this is an access message we can make the function a little better in the future
more generic but let's just display a success message.
Class B G.
Set says.
All right.
And we can say your account has been activated.
Please logon.
That's cool right.
Els But before we do that we're making the Querrey here but we don't know if this went through or not.
Well we actually do because we have this confirm here we know the Querrey is good but we don't know
if the user was found.
All right.
So what we can do here is we can say if row count their function and we count how many rolls we have
and if our rows count function is equal to 1 We know that it worked.
So now what.
That way we can just go up some type of message.
All right.
So in order for this to work we need to go to the you are well a make sure the email is the right email
inside the user's table and the validation is a validation in the validation cause the same as well
so two parameters have to be the same if they use the same for this to work.
Right.
But now again I want you to keep this in mind if this works.
We are actually echoing out.
OK.
You are Callan's being activated.
But we're really not doing anything here.
Right.
We need to do some type of update.
We need to update the users table.
The role for that specific user and say active to 1.
Because right now active is set to zero.
And remember that we are using active just to verify that the user is active is we already register
or not.
So in the next election we're going to write equerry for the update.
And we might put this in a session or something because we want to redirect the user to log in right
away and maybe we'll redirect them to the logging that BHP page.
So we need to set up a session there so that where we can show that message somewhere else and we don't
lose that with this call when we redirect.
Right.
So anyway thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next lecture.